DOCS-2991 Browser Tests Edits & Explore RUM in Synthetics Guide (#12971)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/guide/explore-rum-through-synthetics.md

---
title: Explore RUM & Session Replay in Synthetics
kind: documentation
description: Users without RUM can now preview RUM data, sessions, and errors from their Synthetic browser test results. 
aliases:
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/browser_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
---

## Overview

<div class="alert alert-info">If you don’t have Real User Monitoring, you can access a preview of RUM, Session Replay, Error Tracking, and additional performance data from your Synthetic browser test runs.</div>

> In your browser test recording, click **Collect RUM Data on** above the **Start Recording** button and select an application to collect data on. After saving your recording and test configuration, RUM gathers test data and generates session recordings from your browser test runs. Allowing you to:
> - **Session replay** for all tests, providing more context than the already available screenshots for each step. You can also use Dev Tools (beta) from the session replay.
> - Navigate the session in **RUM**.
> - Aggregate errors seen across your different steps, tests, and test runs with **Error Tracking**, to get a sense of the error impact and prioritize fixing the most serious ones. 
> - Access extra resources and timing information from RUM, with extra search and monitor capabilities.

Author: ```suggestion
In your browser test recording, click **Collect RUM Data on** above the **Start Recording** button and select an application to collect data on. After saving your recording and test configuration, RUM gathers test data and generates session recordings from your browser test runs. 

You have access to:

- **Session Replay** for all tests. This provides additional context beyond the screenshots available for each step and includes Dev Tools.
- The session in the Real User Monitoring Explorer.
- Aggregated errors across your different steps, tests, and test runs with **Error Tracking**. This allows you to scope the error impact and prioritize fixing the most severe issues. 
- Extra resources and timing information from RUM including additional search and monitor capabilities.
```

---
title: Explore RUM & Session Replay in Synthetics
kind: documentation
description: Users without RUM can now preview RUM data, sessions, and errors from their Synthetic browser test results. 
aliases:
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/browser_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
---

## Overview

<div class="alert alert-info">If you don’t have Real User Monitoring, you can access a preview of RUM, Session Replay, Error Tracking, and additional performance data from your Synthetic browser test runs.</div>

In your browser test recording, click **Collect RUM Data on** above the **Start Recording** button and select an application to collect data on. After saving your recording and test configuration, RUM gathers test data and generates session recordings from your browser test runs. 

You have access to:

> - **Session Replay** for all tests. This provides additional context beyond the screenshots available for each step and includes Dev Tools.

Author: ```suggestion
- [**Session Replay**][7] for all tests. This provides additional context beyond the screenshots available for each step and includes [Dev Tools][4].
```

> - The session in the Real User Monitoring Explorer.

Author: ```suggestion
- The session in the [**RUM Explorer**][5].
```

> - Aggregated errors across your different steps, tests, and test runs with **Error Tracking**. This allows you to scope the error impact and prioritize fixing the most severe issues. 

Author: ```suggestion
- Aggregated errors across your different steps, tests, and test runs with [**Error Tracking**][6]. This allows you to scope the error impact and prioritize fixing the most severe issues. 
```

To see this test step's errors, resources, and performance data in the [RUM Explorer][2], click **Go to the View in RUM**. Alternatively, click the **Replay Session** button or **View all sessions in RUM** to explore available session replays captured in your browser test.

## RUM Explorer to Synthetics

In the RUM Explorer, navigate to your [list of sessions][3] and click on a session with a replay available. 

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/rum_in_synthetics/sessions_details_panel.png" alt="Sessions Details Side Panel" style="width:100%;" >}}

The session panel appears with `This event was generated by a Synthetic test run` and includes the test ID and the **View Synthetic Test Result** button.

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/rum_in_synthetics/synthetic_test_session.png" alt="Sessions Details" style="width:80%;" >}}

To navigate back to Synthetics and your test’s results, click **View Synthetic Test Result**.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/tests?query=type%3A%28browser%29
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/

> [3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/explorer

Author: ```suggestion
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/explorer
[4]: /real_user_monitoring/session_replay/developer_tools/
[5]: /real_user_monitoring/explorer/
[6]: /real_user_monitoring/error_tracking/
[7]: /real_user_monitoring/session_replay/
```

---
title: Explore RUM & Session Replay in Synthetics
kind: documentation
description: Users without RUM can now preview RUM data, sessions, and errors from their Synthetic browser test results. 
aliases:
further_reading:
- link: "https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/browser_tests/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
---

## Overview

<div class="alert alert-info">If you don’t have Real User Monitoring, you can access a preview of RUM, Session Replay, Error Tracking, and additional performance data from your Synthetic browser test runs.</div>

> Synthetics Browser tests embed the RUM SDK, allowing you to explore:

Author: ```suggestion
Synthetic browser tests embed the Real User Monitoring SDK, allowing you to explore:
```

- [Session Replay][1] for all tests. This provides additional context beyond the screenshots available for each step and includes [Dev Tools][2].
- The session in the [RUM Explorer][3].
- Aggregated errors across your different steps, tests, and test runs with [Error Tracking][4]. This allows you to scope the error impact and prioritize fixing the most severe issues. 
- Extra resources and timing information from RUM including additional search and monitor capabilities.

## Allow Synthetic data on RUM applications

In your browser test recording, click **Collect RUM Data on** above the **Start Recording** button and select an application to collect data on. After saving your recording and test configuration, RUM gathers test data and generates session recordings from your browser test runs. 

> Optionally, you can choose the Default RUM Application displayed in the Browser Test Recorder:

Author: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can choose which RUM application is displayed in the Browser Test Recorder:
```

In your browser test recording, click **Collect RUM Data on** above the **Start Recording** button and select an application to collect data on. After saving your recording and test configuration, RUM gathers test data and generates session recordings from your browser test runs. 

> Optionally, you can choose which RUM application is displayed in the Browser Test Recorder:

Reviewer: here there is the concept of default 
on the recorder page you have a RUM App selected https://share.getcloudapp.com/geumrvZk
but you can choose another one https://a.cl.ly/Z4u7wdJz

Any idea how we can reflect that?

Reviewer: otherwise good to go for me

Author: ```suggestion
Optionally, click `Synthetic Tests Default` and select a RUM application from the dropdown menu. Your application displays in the browser test recording:
```
